<pre>
  BEP: 524
  Title: Short Block Interval Phase Two: 0.75 seconds
  Status: Enabled
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2025-02-18
  Description: To shorten the block interval from 1.5 seconds to 0.75 seconds.
</pre>

# BEP-524: Short Block Interval Phase Two: 0.75 seconds
- [BEP-524: Short Block Interval Phase Two: 0.75 seconds](#bep-524-short-block-interval-phase-two-075-seconds)
  - [1. Summary](#1-summary)
  - [2. Abstract](#2-abstract)
  - [3. Motivation](#3-motivation)
  - [4. Specification](#4-specification)
    - [4.1 Parameter Changes](#41-parameter-changes)
      - [4.1.1 Change Table](#411-change-table)
    - [4.2 Clear MinerHistory Based on Latest Finalized Blocks](#42-clear-minerhistory-based-on-latest-finalized-blocks)
  - [5. Rational](#5-rational)
    - [5.1 Parameter Changes](#51-parameter-changes)
    - [5.2 Clear MinerHistory Based on Latest Finalized Blocks](#52-clear-minerhistory-based-on-latest-finalized-blocks)
  - [6. Backward Compatibility](#6-backward-compatibility)
    - [6.1 MEV](#61-mev)
    - [6.2 Layer 2 Solutions](#62-layer-2-solutions)
    - [6.3 Quarterly Auto-Burn](#63-quarterly-auto-burn)
    - [6.4 Block Finality](#64-block-finality)
  - [7. License](#7-license)

## 1. Summary
Shorten the block interval from 1.5 seconds to 0.75 seconds to enable faster transaction confirmation and improve user experience.

## 2. Abstract
BEP-520 is the phase one to reduce the block interval from 3 seconds to 1.5 seconds. And this BEP is the phase two, which would reduce it further to 0.75 seconds.

## 3. Motivation
Faster transaction confirmation is a critical and long term goal, with 0.75 seconds block interval, it could meet the requirement of some time sensitive applications.

## 4. Specification
The overall design specification is similar to BEP-520, so only the parameter changes will be covered in this section.

### 4.1 Parameter Changes
As mentioned above, phase one and phase two are highly relevant, their parameter changes will be put in one table for easy comparison.

#### 4.1.1 Change Table
A multitude of system parameters are configured based on the assumption of the default block interval. Consequently, when the block interval is altered, these parameters must be adjusted accordingly:
|parameter |type | origin(3s)  | phase one(1.5s) | phase two(0.75s)|
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|Epoch  |client parameter |200  |500 |1000|
|GasLimit |client parameter |140M |70M |35M|
|GasLimitBoundDivisor |client parameter |256 |1024 |1024|
|Blob Target  |client parameter |3  |3  |3|
|Blob Maximum |client parameter |6  |6  |6|
|Blob MinBlocksForBlobRequests  |client parameter |524288 |1048576 (524288 × 2) |2097152 (524288 × 4)|
|BSCGovernor.votingPeriod |contract parameter |$votingPeriod  |$votingPeriod × 2 |$votingPeriod × 4|
|BSCGovernor.minPeriodAfterQuorum |contract parameter |$minPeriodAfterQuorum  |$minPeriodAfterQuorum × 2 |$minPeriodAfterQuorum × 4 |
|BSCValidatorSet.misdemeanorThreshold |contract parameter |$misdemeanorThreshold  |$misdemeanorThreshold × 2 |$misdemeanorThreshold × 4|
|BSCValidatorSet.felonyThreshold  |contract parameter |$felonyThreshold  |$felonyThreshold × 2  |$felonyThreshold × 4|
|BSCValidatorSet.felonySlashScope |contract parameter |$felonySlashScope  |$felonySlashScope × 2 |$felonySlashScope × 4|
|BSCValidatorSet.TurnLength  |contract parameter |4  |8  |16|

### 4.2 Clear MinerHistory Based on Latest Finalized Blocks
Under the current block producer selection algorithm, if a validator fails to produce a block during its assigned slot, another validator may take over. However, due to the restrictions imposed by `MinerHistory`(as defined in [BEP-404](./BEP-404.md)), the replacement validator may also be ineligible during its own slot, which reduces the overall rate of in-turn block production.

[BEP-404](./BEP-404.md) introduced logic to clear `MinerHistory` when the validator set changes, preventing this issue from accumulating over time. However, since this BEP will increase the `epochLength` to 1000, such off-schedule production issues can now persist and accumulate within a single epoch.

To mitigate this, this BEP proposes clearing outdated entries in `MinerHistory` based on the latest finalized block. Any entry with a block number less than or equal to the finalized block number will be removed:

```Go
MinerHistory  map[uint64]Address  
latestFinalizedBlockNumber uint64

// Clear entries up to the latest finalized block
for blockNumber := range MinerHistory {
  if blockNumber <= latestFinalizedBlockNumber {
    delete(MinerHistory, blockNumber)
  }
}

```

## 5. Rational
### 5.1 Parameter Changes
Refer [BEP-520](./BEP-520.md)
### 5.2 Clear MinerHistory Based on Latest Finalized Blocks
This feature leverages Fast Finality to optimize the selection of block producers, improving the overall rate of in-turn block production. As a result, interactions with the in-turn block producer can be further optimized—for example, in terms of block production, voting, transactions, and the propagation of builder-generated bids to the next in-turn block producer.

## 6. Backward Compatibility
### 6.1 MEV
After phase two, the block interval will be reduced to 0.75 seconds, a single validator will produce 16 consecutive blocks per turn, keeping the total block production time at 12 seconds (0.75 × 16). However, the shorter block time significantly reduces the collaboration window for searchers, builders, and validators, impacting the current process and requiring adjustments.

### 6.2 Layer 2 Solutions
`Blob Target` and `Blob Maximum` remain unchanged to preserve compatibility with existing users. At the same time, the increased blob capacity lowers the cost of submitting blob data.


### 6.3 Quarterly Auto-Burn
The [Quarterly Auto-Burn](https://www.bnbburn.info/) mechanism also requires adjustment,The block count in the formula is replaced with time, resulting in the new formula:

$B = (T/3)\*1000/(P+K) \approx (T\*334)/(P+K)$

where T represents the number of seconds in the corresponding quarter.

### 6.4 Block Finality
This BEP will not change the fast finality mechanism, but short block interval could bring some challenges to fast finality, as votes need to be propagated in a shorter time. When fast finality works properly, with this BEP, the average transaction finality time would be reduced from 3.75 seconds to 1.875 seconds.
But if fast finality failed, with TurnLength 16 and ValidatorSize 21, for natural block finality, it will be:
- (with >1/2 validator confirmations):  176(11*16) blocks, that is 132 seconds
- (with >2/3 validator confirmations):  240(15*16) blocks, that is 180 seconds

## 7. License
The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
