<pre>
  BEP: 346
  Title: Streamline off-chain authentication on Greenfield
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2024-03-14
</pre>


# BEP-346: Streamline off-chain authentication on Greenfield

- [BEP-346: Streamline off-chain authentication on Greenfield](#bep-346-streamline-off-chain-authentication-on-greenfield)
  - [1. Summary](#1-summary)
  - [2. Motivation](#2-motivation)
  - [3. Status](#3-status)
  - [4. Specification](#4-specification)
  - [5. License](#5-license)


## 1. Summary
This BEP introduces GNFD2-EDDSA, a simplified off-chain authentication signature verification method. It streamlines the authentication process, reducing developer integration complexity and improving user interaction.

## 2. Motivation

Greenfield is an object storage system with permission management. SP uses an off-chain authentication mechanism to authenticate users from the dApps. For more details, refer to [Greenfield Storage Provider Off-Chain Authentication](https://github.com/bnb-chain/greenfield-storage-provider/blob/master/docs/modules/authenticator.md). 

In the previous design, users first needed to request a Metamask signature to derive an EdDSA private key. Subsequently, registering this EdDSA public key with various SPs required another Metamask signature. We strive to simplify the off-chain authentication procedure by consolidating the two signatures into a single one.


## 3. Status
This BEP is in progress.

## 4. Specification

When maintaining security integrity, we recommend streamlining the off-chain authentication process as follows:

1. In a dApp frontend, a random EdDSA private key is generated without fetching a nonce from the service provider or requesting a user wallet signature, and this private key would be stored in the browser's local storage. The generation of a private EdDSA key is to use Ed25519 as the EdDSA curve. Here is the sample code:
    ```
    // use js lib at https://github.com/paulmillr/noble-ed25519 
    const privateKeyBytes = ed.utils.randomPrivateKey();
    ```

2. To register the user’s current EdDSA public key with SPs, users are required to sign the message. This step ensures SPs can verify the user's identity. The simplified content for signing is as follows:

    ```
    https://www.yourwebsite.com wants you to sign in with your BNB Greenfield account:0xA4cFxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx0af6
    Register your identity public key 280e1a3f143215c010db9c4f1bbd0675b39356a8ee8b4b3b6f965b5c7a42d3aa
    URI: https://www.yourwebsite.com
    Version: 1
    Chain ID: 1017
    Issued At: 2024-03-02T07:24:24Z
    Expiration Time: 2024-03-07T07:24:24Z
    ```

    After users register their EdDSA public keys with the SPs, they can sign requested messages using the private key. This allows the SP to verify their identity based on the registered public key. This off-chain authentication signature doesn't require block chain network operations, so users can verify signatures without switching to the Greenfield network.

3. When a user initiates a request to the SP, they sign the request using the EdDSA private key generated in step one. The signature is then placed in the authorization field of the header. To ensure backward compatibility, this new signature verification method is labeled as GNFD2-EDDSA. While the previous signature verification method is no longer recommended, it is still supported. The new format is as follows:

    ```
    Authorization = auth_type + "," + Signature
    string-to-sign = crypto.Keccak256(canonical)
    Signature = ed25519.Sign(privateKey, string-to-sign)

    Authorization: GNFD2-EDDSA, Signature=0a9d0e0c4778cdfbbc7d86f4aad2651d3c0140c15a80b4f80315dee58987c2a401877bfb05aef6f8a9c4137b8587a4f02536b3cb7e303c444edaacee476e7ad2
    ```

## 5. License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
