<pre>
  BEP: 563
  Title: Enhanced Validator Network
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2025-04-16
  Description: To make network more efficient between validators.
</pre>

# BEP-563: Enhanced Validator Network
- [BEP-563: Enhanced Validator Network](#bep-563-enhanced-validator-network)
  * [1. Summary](#1-summary)
  * [2. Status](#2-status)
  * [3. Motivation](#3-motivation)
  * [4. Specification](#4-specification)
    + [4.1 Clarification](#41-clarification)
      - [4.1.1 Sentry Node](#411-sentry-node)
      - [4.1.2 NodeID](#412-nodeid)
    + [4.2 NodeID Registration](#42-nodeid-registration)
      - [4.2.1 Update on web page](#421-update-on-web-page)
      - [4.2.2 Update on node start](#422-update-on-node-start)
    + [4.3 NodeID Verification](#43-nodeid-verification)
    + [4.4 Message Propagation](#44-message-propagation)
  * [5. Rationale](#5-rationale)
    + [5.1 Why add validator’s NodeID](#51-why-add-validators-nodeid)
    + [5.2 Why use system contract](#52-why-use-system-contract)
  * [6. Backward Compatibility](#6-backward-compatibility)
  * [7. License](#7-license)

## 1. Summary

This BEP supports adding validator’s NodeID on the system contract, so the validators can identify each other in the p2p network and forward messages more efficiently.

## 2. Status

Draft

## 3. Motivation

The current BSC P2P network runs well with a 3-second block interval, but after BEP-520 and BEP-524, BSC will achieve a subsecond block interval, which has higher requirements for low message latency.

The current public P2P network is a permissionless network on a large scale, anyone can join the network. Permissionless is necessary for a decentralized network, but it has several challenges, especially on network latency and efficiency.

To satisfy the network requirement of subsecond block interval, it is very helpful to have validators recognize each other in the network and be close enough to each other. Meanwhile, core consensus messages, such as Block Message and Vote Message, can be propagated under the new network topology with better network quality.

## 4. Specification

### 4.1 Clarification

Before diving deep into the design doc, try to introduce some common concepts first.

#### 4.1.1 Sentry Node

For security purposes, most validators work on the intranet. The Sentry Node is a full node that acts as the validator's public network protection node. It connects to the public network P2P Node and forwards P2P messages.

Since the sentry node is the proxy node of the validator on the public network, the validator needs to register the sentry's NodeID on the chain.

#### 4.1.2 NodeID

NodeID is the public key that's used for encrypting communication. A connection can be established with any P2P peer through IP+Port+NodeID.

### 4.2 NodeID Registration

This BEP will upgrade the StakeHub contract; it needs to add new storage slots to save the validator's NodeIDs.

And there are some rules:

- NodeIDs update can only be conducted with operatorAddress, agentAddress or consensusAddress.
- Only validators created in stakeHub can add multiple NodeIDs.
- The maximum number of NodeIDs that each validator can register can be changed through governance, 5 by default.

There are two approaches to update the nodes:

#### 4.2.1 New Interfaces of StakeHub contract

The StakeHub system contract will provide two new interfaces to add and remove NodeIDs respectively:

```solidity
    function addNodeIDs(bytes32[] calldata newNodeIDs) external;
    function removeNodeIDs(bytes32[] calldata targetNodeIDs) external;
```

As mentioned above, only three specific addresses of the validator: `operatorAddress`, `agentAddress`, and `consensusAddress` are permitted to call the two interfaces. Calls from any other address will be reverted.

#### 4.2.2 Tips for Updating NodeIDs

To simplify the process of updating NodeIDs, several approaches can be considered:

- The BNB Chain Staking page can offer a user-friendly interface, allowing users to connect their wallets with operator or agent accounts to easily update NodeIDs.
- The BSC client can provide configuration options for adding or removing NodeIDs.

It’s important to note that this process is not part of the consensus mechanism, and detailed instructions will be provided later.

### 4.3 NodeID Verification

- Retrieve the Latest Validator Node IDs: This can be achieved by subscribing to the NodeIDAdded and NodeIDRemoved events for each block, or by periodically querying the interface getNodeIDs(address[] calldata validatorsToQuery).
- P2P Connection Handling: During the P2P connection process, verify if the connected node matches any of the registered validator Node IDs. If it does, it will be classified as a validator’s sentry node; otherwise, it will be considered a normal node.

### 4.4 Message Propagation

Some connection features will be enabled between validators to optimize network congestion and reduce message latency.

- Transaction: it will not be propagated between validators.
- Block: it will prioritize broadcasting directly to all other connected validators in the network. The specific implementation depends on the client and needs to balance latency and bandwidth.
- Vote: same as block.

## 5. Rationale

### 5.1 Why add validator’s NodeID

Currently, validators often connect to the P2P Network through public full nodes. When producing blocks or sending votes, the connected full nodes may forward the block through multiple hops before reaching other validators.

By adding validator’s NodeID on the chain, validators can be identified, so the validator/sentry can choose to connect to validators first, and keep a small number of full nodes.

At the same time, a more efficient message forwarding mechanism can be enabled between validators, better traffic control can be implemented, and the delay of message reception can be further reduced.

### 5.2 Why use system contract

The update of the system contract depends on the hardfork, which can maintain consistent registration and query logic for all nodes.

At the same time, registering the NodeID in the system contract can also maximize decentralization. Any active validator can be updated at any time and can quickly establish an efficient P2P connection with other validators.

## 6. Backward Compatibility

This BEP requires a hard fork to upgrade the system contract and keep the logic of all nodes consistent.

## 7. License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
