<pre>
  BEP: 302
  Title: Implement EIP-3855: PUSH0 instruction
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2023-10-27
</pre>

# BEP-302: Implement EIP-3855: PUSH0 instruction
- [BEP-302: Implement EIP-3855: PUSH0 instruction](#bep-302-implement-eip-3855-push0-instruction)
  - [1. Summary](#1-summary)
  - [2. Abstract](#2-abstract)
  - [3. Motivation](#3-motivation)
  - [4. Specification](#4-specification)
  - [5. Rationale](#5-rationale)
    - [Gas cost](#gas-cost)
    - [Opcode](#opcode)
  - [6. Backwards Compatibility](#6-backwards-compatibility)
  - [7. Test Cases](#7-test-cases)
  - [8. Security Considerations](#8-security-considerations)
  - [9. License](#9-license)


## 1. Summary

As part of Shanghai upgrade, EIP-3855: PUSH0 instruction is required to be implemented to BSC.

## 2. Abstract

Introduce the `PUSH0` (`0x5f`) instruction, which pushes the constant value 0 onto the stack.

## 3. Motivation

Many instructions expect offsets as inputs, which in a number of cases are zero. A good example is the return data parameters of `CALLs`, which are set to zeroes in case the contract prefers using `RETURNDATA*`. This is only one example, but there are many other reasons why a contract would need to push a zero value. They can achieve that today by `PUSH1 0`, which costs 3 gas at runtime, and is encoded as two bytes which means `2 * 200` gas deployment cost.

Because of the overall cost many try to use various other instructions to achieve the same effect. Common examples include `PC`, `MSIZE`, `CALLDATASIZE`, `RETURNDATASIZE`, `CODESIZE`, `CALLVALUE`, and `SELFBALANCE`. Some of these cost only 2 gas and are a single byte long, but their value can depend on the context.

We have conducted an analysis on Mainnet (block ranges 8,567,259…8,582,058 and 12,205,970…12,817,405), and ~11.5% of all the `PUSH*` instructions executed push a value of zero.

The main motivations for this change include:
1. Reducing contract code size.
2. Reducing the risk of contracts (mis)using various instructions as an optimisation measure. Repricing/changing those instructions can be more risky.
3. Reduce the need to use `DUP` instructions for duplicating zeroes.

To put the "waste" into perspective, across existing accounts 340,557,331 bytes are wasted on `PUSH1 00` instructions, which means 68,111,466,200 gas was spent to deploy them. In practice a lot of these accounts share identical bytecode with others, so their total stored size in clients is lower, however the deploy time cost must have been paid nevertheless.

An example for 2) is changing the behaviour of `RETURNDATASIZE` such that it may not be guaranteed to be zero at the beginning of the call frame. 

## 4. Specification

The instruction `PUSH0` is introduced at `0x5f`. It has no immediate data, pops no items from the stack, and places a single item with the value 0 onto the stack. The cost of this instruction is 2 gas (aka `base`).

## 5. Rationale

### Gas cost

The `base` gas cost is used for instructions which place constant values onto the stack, such as `ADDRESS`, `ORIGIN`, and so forth.

### Opcode

`0x5f` means it is in a "contiguous" space with the rest of the `PUSH` implementations and potentially could share the implementation.

## 6. Backwards Compatibility

This EIP introduces a new opcode which did not exists previously. Already deployed contracts using this opcode could change their behaviour after this EIP.

## 7. Test Cases

- `5F` -- successful execution, stack consist of a single item, set to zero
- `5F5F..5F` (1024 times) -- successful execution, stack consists of 1024 items, all set to zero
- `5F5F..5F` (1025 times) -- execution aborts due to out of stack

## 8. Security Considerations

The authors are not aware of any impact on security. Note that jumpdest-analysis is unaffected, as `PUSH0` has no immediate data bytes.

## 9. License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).