<pre>
  BEP: 126
  Title: Fast Finality Mechanism
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2021-12-20
  Discussions(optional): https://forum.bnbchain.org/t/bep-126-draft-introduce-fast-finality-mechanism/123/3
</pre>

# BEP-126: Introduce Fast Finality Mechanism

- [BEP-126: Introduce Fast Finality Mechanism](#bep-97-introduce-fast-finality-mechanism)
    - [1. Summary](#1-summary)
    - [2. Abstract](#2-abstract)
    - [3. Motivation](#3-motivation)
    - [4. Specification](#4-specification)
    - [5. License](#5-license)

## 1. Summary

This BEP introduces a fast finality mechanism on the BNB Smart Chain.

## 2. Abstract

BEP-126 Proposal describes a fast finality mechanism to finalize a block, once the block has been finalized, it won't be
reverted forever.

It takes several steps to finalize a block:
1. A block is proposed by a validator and propagated to other validators.
2. Validators use their BLS private key to sign for the block as a vote message.
3. Gather the votes from validators into a pool.
4. Aggregate the BLS signature if its direct parent block has gotten enough votes when proposing a new block.
5. Set the aggregated vote attestation into the extra field of the new block's header.
6. Validators and full nodes who received the new block with the direct parent block's attestation can justify the direct parent block.
7. If there are two continuous blocks have been justified, then the previous one is finalized.

The finality of a block can be achieved within two blocks in most cases, this is expected to reduce the chance
of chain re-organization and stabilize the block producing further.

## 3. Motivation

Finality is critical for blockchain security, once the block is finalized, it would not be reverted anymore. The fast
finality feature is very useful, users can make sure they get the accurate information from the latest finalized block,
then they can decide what to do next instantly.

Currently, on BNB Smart chain, all the full nodes and validators need to wait until enough blocks have been produced
to ensure a probabilistic finality. For BSC, with 21 validators, full nodes and validators can wait 2/3*21=14 blocks
to ensure a relatively secure finality, it would be quite long time for some critical applications.

## 4. Specification
### 4.1 Fast Finality Mechanism
We introduce a vote mechanism to reach fast finality, the whole mechanism includes several rules in vote and consensus.

#### 4.1.1 Validator Vote Rules
Validators can vote for blocks if they think that block should be in the canonical chain, and once their votes have been
wrapped into the header, they will get rewards. At the same time, they should obey the vote rules, the vote rules can be
described as follows.

1. A validator must not publish two distinct votes for the same height. (Rule 1)
2. A validator must not vote within the span of its other votes . (Rule 2)
3. Validators always vote for their canonical chain’s latest block. (Rule 3)

Define the following notation:
* _s_	: the block hash of the latest justified block in the longest chain(the “source”)
* _t_	: the expected longest chain  head block hash that is a descendent of s (the “target”)
* h(_s_): the height of block _s_
* h(_t_): the height of block _t_
* <_v_, _s_, _t_, h(_s_), h(_t_)> : validator _v_’s vote message
* _a_ -> _b_ : super majority link that ⅔*v+ validators have voted with source _a_ and target _b_

The Rule 1 and Rule 2 can be described as for any two votes:
1. h(*t*1) == h(*t*2) is not allowed. (Rule 1)
2. h(*s*1) < h(*s*2) < h(*t*2) < h(*t*1) is not allowed. (Rule 2)

#### 4.1.2 Aggregate Votes Rules
The valid vote messages should be saved to the block header, before that the miner should first aggregate these votes,
the rules for aggregating votes can be described as follows:

1. When validators mining blocks, if they see its direct parent block has gathered  ⅔*v+ votes from valid validators, they
should aggregate these votes as an attestation for the parent block. We call this direct parent block as the attested
block. We assume 1 block time is totally enough for validators to receive a block, vote for the block and propagate the
vote to other validators.

#### 4.1.3 Finality Rules
There are two steps to finalize a block, the first step we call justify, the second step we call finalize.

1. A block is called justified if
* (1) it is the root, or
* (2) there exists attestation for this block in its direct child’s header, we call this block **justified**.
2. A block is called finalized if
* (1) it is the root, or
* (2) it is justified and its direct child is justified.

#### 4.1.4 Longest Chain
In the Parlia and Clique consensus, the validators will rely on the sum of the “Difficulty” field to compare and confirm
which chain is the longest to pick as the ancestor.

While introducing this finality mechanism, the chain should grow under new fork choice rule: the fork including the
highest justified block should be considered as the longest chain even though there are other chain forks with higher
difficulty sum. If there is no new block that can be justified during some time, the chain can grow with the previous
longest chain rule, which can make the chain remain original probabilistic finality.

The new longest chain rule can be described as follows.

1. The fork that includes the higher justified block is considered as the longest chain.
2. When the justified block is the same, fall back to compare the sum of the “Difficulty” field.

#### 4.1.5 Validator Liveness
In the current Parlia consensus, the validator liveness is ½*v+1=11, which means when there are more than 11 validators
online, the chain can get increased continuously.

In this design, the liveness of producing blocks and the liveness of finalizing blocks are independent. Despite of ⅔*v+ validators are needed to keep the finalized block number increasing, keeping the chain increasing only need ½*v+ validators as before.

### 4.2 Theory Proof
Assume the malicious validators are less than ⅓*v, honest validators are more than ⅔*v, honest validators always behave
under the above rules, the vote can be propagated to all validators within one block time, then we can prove this fast
finality mechanism has accountable safety and plausible liveness.

Accountable safety means that two blocks in different forks cannot both be finalized unless ⅓*v or more validators
violate the voting rules.

Plausible liveness means that, regardless of any previous events, if ⅔*v+ validators follow the mechanism, then it’s
always possible to finalize a new block without any validator violating the vote rules.

Under the assumption that less than ⅓*v validators violate the vote rules, we have the following properties:

1. If *s*1 -> *t*1 and *s*2 -> *t*2 are distinct super majority links, then h(*t*1) != h(*t*2).
2. If *s*1 -> *t*1 and *s*2 -> *t*2 are distinct super majority links, then the inequality h(*s*1) < h(*s*2) < h(*t*2) < h(*t*1) cannot hold.

From these two properties, we can immediately see that, for any height n:

3. there exists at most one super majority link _s_ -> _t_ with h(_t_) == n.
4. there exists at most one justified block with height n.

With these four properties in hand, we move to the main theorems.

#### 4.2.1 Accountable Safety
**Theorem 1 (Accountable Safety).** Two blocks in different forks cannot both be finalized.

Let Am (with justified Am+1, meaning h(Am) + 1 == h(Am+1)) and Bn (with justified direct child Bn+1, meaning
h(Bn) + 1 == h(Bn+1)) be distinct finalized blocks. Now suppose Am and Bn are on different forks,
and without loss of generality h(Am) < h(Bn) (If h(Am) == h(Bn) it is clear that at least one honest validator violated
Rule 1).

Bn is finalized, so there must exist a super majority link R -> B1, …, Bi - > Bi+1, …, Bn -> Bn+1. We know no super majority
link’s target h(Bi) equals either h(Am) or h(Am+1), because that violates property 4.

Let j be the lowest integer such that the super majority link’s target  h(Bj) > h(Am+1). If the super majority link’s
source is justified , we have h(Bj-1) < h(Am+1),  and h(Am) = h(Am+1)-1, so h(Bj-1) < h(Am); this implies that the
existence of a super majority link Am -> Am+1 within the span of Bj-1 -> Bj, this violates the vote Rule 2.

#### 4.2.2 Plausible Liveness
**Theorem 2 (Plausible Liveness)**. Super majority links can always be added to produce new finalized blocks, provided there exist children extending the finalized chain.

With the justified block growing, the
validators can always start new round voting without violating any vote rules, then we know there always will be new
justified blocks, and once one of its direct child block has been justified, this block can be finalized without
violating any vote rules.

### 4.3 Reward
In order to make the block get finalized faster, once the validators see the votes for the block are 2/3 or more validators,
these votes will be wrapped and the reward will be distributed to these wrapped voted validators, the remained validators
who didn’t vote for the block or vote later won’t get reward.

#### 4.3.1 Reward Rules
Rewards are distributed by weights at the end of every epoch.
* Validators whose vote is wrapped into the vote attestation can get one weight for reward
* Validators who assemble vote attestation can get additional weights. The number of weights is equal to the number of extra votes than required
* The total reward is equal to the amount our system reward contract has grown over the last epoch. If the value of the system reward contract hits the upper limit, 1 BNB will be distributed

### 4.4 Slash
#### 4.4.1 Slash Rules
* The validator who violates the first two vote rules will be slashed
* The evidence can be submitted by anyone, whenever someone sees the malicious behavior, he can submit the evidence to a
  designed system contract
* Once the evidence has been proved valid, the malicious validator will be put into jail and punished with a huge fine, like 10000 BNBs.
  The submitter can get part of the rewards from our system reward contract.
* The malicious validator will only be punished once. Once the malicious validator has been put into jail, the later submitters that submit malicious evidence of the
  validators won’t get any reward. 

### 4.5 Stopping Attacks
There are two well-known attacks against proof-of stake system: *long range revisions* and *catastrophic crashes*, these
attacks are also existed after implementing this BEP.

## 5. License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
